# Autonomous Robots as Performing Agents

At the beginning of the paper, it was insinuated that physical performances using puppotics could be more entertaining and engaging than virtual ones, which I thought was completely absurd. Afterall, how could these robots express themselves, how could they show emotions better than virtual performers? The woggles expressed themselves by stretching, squashing and bouncing around, so how could a robot do these things? Going into this reading with the idea of robots being a metallic structure, I failed to take into account that these robots can be made out of different materials including fabrics and what was used to create the woggles – neoprene. This material made all the difference in bringing the woggles to life, it allowed them to stretch and squash to express different emotions. If metal was used instead, their movement would have been stiff and quite “robotic”

There is no doubt that there are physical restrictions associated with bringing the woggles, or any performance, to life. To get around these restrictions, it may be necessary to change some of the key features that identify certain characters. In the case of the woggles, this was a change from having them jump into having them spin and roll around instead. However, the case may not always be this simple. This made me wonder how much can we change in a story or performance without changing the original narrative or characteristics of the actors? If the woggles had a more solid plot and less improvisation, would finding solutions to these physical restrictions change the narrative completely? Can it still be called a 1:1 implementation of the original performance?
